---
layout: people
title: Teodolinda Barolini
description: Lorenzo da Ponte Professor of Italian at Columbia University
img: tbarolini.jpeg
author: Alex Gil
projects:
- Digital Dante
---

Teodolinda Barolini is Lorenzo da Ponte Professor of Italian at Columbia University. Her research focuses on thirteenth- and fourteenth-century Italian literary culture, its relation to classical antiquity, and its reception through the centuries to our own day. She has written widely on Dante, Petrarch, Boccaccio, and the medieval lyric. <em>Dante’s Poets: Textuality and Truth in the ‘Comedy’</em> (Princeton, 1984) is her first book; it won the Marraro Prize of the Modern Language Association and the John Nicholas Brown Prize of the Medieval Academy, and was translated into Italian as <em>Il miglior fabbro: Dante e i poeti della ‘Commedia’</em> (Bollati Boringhieri, 1993). Her next book, <em>The Undivine Comedy: Detheologizing Dante</em> (Princeton, 1992), looks at how Dante constructs a virtual reality in language in the light of his repeated truth claims, and sets out a method of reading – “detheologizing” – that counteracts the narrative structures that work to overdetermine our hermeneutic response to the poem. <em>Dante and the Origins of Italian Literary Culture</em>(Fordham, 2006) explores the origins of Italian literary culture through four prisms: “A Philosophy of Desire”; “Christian and Pagan Intertexts”; “Ordering the Macrotext: Time and Narrative”; and “Gender.” This volume won the <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V4lfPpRMEj0" target="_blank">Premio Flaiano in Italianistica</a> in 2007. Among Prof. Barolini’s current projects is a two-part commentary on Dante’s lyrics: the first volume has been published in Italy as <em>Rime giovanili e della ‘Vita Nuova’</em> (BUR, 2009); this same volume has been expanded and translated into English as <a href="http://www.utppublishing.com/Dante-s-Lyric-Poetry-Poems-of-Youth-and-of-the-Vita-Nuova.html" target="_blank"><em>Dante’s Lyric Poetry: Poems of Youth and of the ‘Vita Nuova’</em></a> (Toronto, 2014).